Cisco, don't expect you to be a developer, you can write your own code for the Shishani exam, but
they do expect you to know some of the basic terminology around development and the way that developers
work.
So I'm going to cover those in the short lecture here.
First up is about Python.
And Python is typically the language of choice for network programmability for several reasons.
It's relatively easy to learn and many different training resources available.
The python scripting language is human readable, and it's easy by reading through it to see what's
going on.
It's free, open source.
It can be installed on all popular operating systems.
It's actually built into Linux and mark by default.
And it's easy to find network automation code samples.
So you don't have to start from a blank page all the time for anything that you want to do.
You can typically find a code sample where somebody is already done not and then you maybe just need
to modify it slightly for your particular environment.
Next thing is get get is version control system, which tracks changes in source code and fails, it's
typically used for software development, but it can also provide version control for any type of files
with most client server version control systems.
So over her version, control systems do exist, but get as by far the most popular one these days with
a client server version control system.
The code has to be checked out and can only be worked on by one developer at a time.
So get the benefits that you get.
You get the version control there to it keeps track of the changes that have been made.
And it's very easy to roll back to the previous version.
It's also very useful when you're working as part of a team where multiple people can work on the code.
At the same time, if you've got a client server version of that servers, one master copy of it and
only one person can work on the code at a time, get is different.
It's a distributed version control system.
So with it being a distributed version control system, every directory on every computer is a fully
fledged repository with complete history and full version tracking abilities.
So when you've got multiple developers working on the same project, they can all have their own separate
copy of the project and they can start their own branches from there.
And it's very easy to merge everything into the same code.
Organizations do typically designate one repository as the master copy just for ease of management,
but the architecture of it is it's distributed.
Every separate repository is a complete, separate copy of the repository.
OK, so that gives you your version.
Control makes it easy to work on code when you're working as part of a team.
There's also get help now.
Get and get Halbe are two different things.
So get is the version.
Control software Git Hub is a repository hosting service which adds many of its own features.
A repository, by the way, is just a place that you can keep things.
So if you've got a source code repository, it's where you're keeping all files that are making up the
source code.
Repositories in GitHub can be private or they can be publicly shared.
They can be easily copied between users on task management.
Tools are available which make it easier when you're working as part of a team and control mechanisms
provides you to resolve conflicts, as I mentioned earlier, with get as distributed and you can have
multiple people working on it sometime soon over when you've only got one single master copy which one
person can work on at a time because it's distributed.
It is possible that conflicts where can arise where you've got people that have made changes to the
same part of the code and it's different changes for our tools within Git on GitHub to help you resolve.
OK, the last thing to talk about here is she said she stands for continuous integration on CD is continuous
delivery or continuous deployment.
You can use either one of those terms.
They're both CD.
Shiki is a set of operating principles and practices that enable application development teams to deliver
chord changes more frequently and reliable.
So she said it's not a thing that you can touch.
It's not like a piece of software.
It is really best practices for how software development teams work.
That with software development teams producing CWD, frequent changes are more efficient than rolling
them up into large change windows.
So when record is written and it's ready to be put into production, it's seen as a best practice.
Now that you do that frequently, it's better to have frequent changes than rolling up all your changes
into a huge bundle and then doing that.
And frequently, I mean putting it into production.
Automation of building, testing and deployment allows you to make those frequent changes and still
having them being quality changes without causing problems.
And the implementation when you're doing this is new as your QEI CD pipeline software tools such as
Jenkins and Travis.
I can age management of the pipeline in your environment.
OK, so that was all the basic information around development required for decision that I needed to
talk about here.
I'll see you in the next lecture.